Now that we understood what the role of the star is, we can write our own structural directive.
So let's create a new directive and I will use the CLI for this,
I'll name it unless,
so I will basically create the opposite of the ngIf directive.
This directive here will attach something only if the condition is false, ngIf does it if the condition
is true.
So here, I'll again delete the spec file here and in the unless directive, I get my selector which is
fine.
Now here, I need to get the condition as an input,
so I'll add @input and remember in the end, we will use property binding with the square brackets because Angular
transforms it for us,
we need to of course import input from @angular/core
and then here, I want to bind to a property named unless, which kind of simply is the condition we get
but whenever this condition changes,
so whenever some input parameter here changes, I want to execute a method and therefore, I can implement
a setter with the set keyword.
This now turns this into a method, though technically and that's important to understand, this still is
a property,
it's just a setter of the property which is a method which gets executed whenever the property changes
and it of course changes whenever it changes outside of this directive,
so whenever the condition we pass changes or some parameter of this condition. Unless therefore needs
to receive the value, the property we would normally get as an input
and we know that this will be a boolean because it will be our condition in the end,
so we could also name this condition. Then we can check if the condition is not true, which is the case
in which I want to display something because unless is the opposite of ngIf and if the condition is true,
well then I want to display nothing.
So that is how we get the condition, how we use it, how do we display something?
Keep in mind that our unless directive here in the end will sit on such an ng-template component because
that is what it gets transformed to by Angular if we use the star.
So we can get access to this template and we also need to get access to the place in the document where
we want to render it, both can be injected.
The template can be injected by adding template ref, any name you like but the type is of type template
ref,
so just like element ref gave us access to the element the directive was on, template ref does the same
for a template and this is a generic type, you can simply pass any here and we need to import template ref
from @angular/core. The second information piece we need is the view container,
so where should we render it?
The template is the what, now the question is where.
So I'll name it vcRef for view container reference and the type is view container reference or view
container ref
which is also imported from @angular/core. That marks the place where we placed this directive in the
document,
Angular marks this place and you can see this if you inspect it in the developer tools actually.
So with these two tools available, we can use the vcRef whenever the condition changes, to call the
createEmbeddedView method which does just what the name implies, it creates a view in this view container
and the view simply is our template ref.
So this template we created there is exactly this reference to the template there, is exactly what we
need.
Well and if the condition is true in this case, so if its not what we were looking for, then we will
simply call the clear method to remove everything from this place in the DOM.
With that, our own directive is set up, of course we need to make sure that it is added here,
the CLI did this for us and now in the app component, we can use our own directive, maybe to replace ngIf
here, so I'll comment out all this stuff here
and only copy the original div down there, comment this in of course.
So here instead of using ngIf, I'll use appUnless and the star is important because it still is a structural
directive,
otherwise we would have to manually write it with this ng-template syntax you learned before.
So here of course, we don't want to check if onlyOdd is false because keep in mind, the unless directive
will check for the opposite already,
so here we have to pass just onlyOdd.
And with this in place, we get that we can't bind to appUnless because it's not a known property. Why do
we get this? Can be really hard to track,
we get this error because what we're trying to do is we have property binding here, custom property binding
with @input and we're binding a property named unless.
Now keep in mind, the star
automatically transforms this in this ng-template syntax where we then try to property bind to the
directive name which is appUnless. So we have to make sure that our property here shares the name of the
directive,
appUnless,
exactly the same, the same as the selector.
Now with this, it works fine
and as we can see if I toggle here, we get the same behavior as before
even though I commented out the ngIf block and use my own appUnless directive instead.
So this is our own custom structural directive built.